[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired special agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
the 1953 Kingman crash.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: Well, there's a lot of
discussion about this Kingman
crash, and I do believe you
have the actual file of the 1953
Kingman crash.
Is that correct?
>>DOTY: I do.
A number of us had access to
the actual incident of 1953.
I'm going to relate exactly
what that case file says.
And that's going to
probably be a lot different
than some of the other reports
that's been on the internet.
>>EMERY: So tell us about it.
>>DOTY: First of all, let's
talk about Kingman, Arizona.
Back in the 1940s, where the
airport is located today,
Kingman, there was an
Army Airfield there.
And they trained pilots from
about 41 up to about 46 or 47.
And after that, after about 47,
they maintained a base there
at the old Army Airfield.
It was in caretaker status
right up until about 1956
when it was turned over
to the city of Kingman.
And eventually, an
airport was built there.
By May of 1953, there
was a master sergeant,
one of the several caretakers
for the Army Airfield.
He was on duty.
And his job was to just
watch over the airfield.
One day in May, he saw a bright
light coming in from the north.
And he thought, my gosh,
what could that be?
It was extremely bright,
brighter than any aircraft.
But he thought it
was an aircraft.
But he watched it.
And it eventually crashed some
distance east of his location
at the Army Airfield.
So he figured it was
an airplane crash.
So he notified the Mojave
County Sheriff's Department
by telephone.
About 40 minutes later,
a deputy came out.
And with the deputy
in separate vehicles,
they drove out towards
the crash site.
The site wasn't
around any roads,
so they had to go off road
to get to this crash site.
When they arrived
at the crash site,
they found a
saucer-shaped objects
embedded into the ground.
Now, neither Kurt, the master
sergeant, or the deputy
knew anything about
extraterrestrials, or flying
saucers, or anything like that.
So they were confused
exactly what this thing was.
But what the master
sergeant knew
was that there was a base that
was doing nuclear testing up
in Nevada.
Nevada Test Range, it was
called back in those days.
He thought maybe this
is something from there.
So as he got closer,
a door opened.
And out came this about
5-foot-looking human.
But they looked at it, and
they realized it wasn't human.
It looked similar to a human.
But the eyes and face and
body structure was different.
So the deputy said,
I think this is
a spacecraft from outer space.
And so this little
entity walks up to them
and starts talking in a language
that they couldn't understand.
They first thought it was maybe
Russian, but neither one of them
could understand Russian.
Although Kurt was in Europe
during the war, World War II,
he knew some German and French,
the deputy was in the Pacific
and he knew some Japanese.
And he kept telling Kurt
that this is Japanese.
This thing was
speaking Japanese.
But obviously, it
wasn't Japanese.
So the deputy went
back to his truck
and tried to call on a radio.
The radio wouldn't work.
In fact, the truck
wouldn't start.
So Kurt went over to his Jeep.
And he had remnants of
a World War II Jeep.
He got in the Jeep and tried to
use his radio telephone to call
back, and it didn't work.
Well, so now they're stuck out
there in the middle of nowhere
with this--
>>EMERY: This little guy.
>>DOTY: --spacecraft
and this little guy.
And this little guy, they
didn't know what to do with him.
He kept talking and
talking and talking.
And so they noticed
that he had bruising.
His skin was discolored,
but they weren't sure
if that was a spacesuit or
if it was an actual skin.
But finally, it sat
down by the craft.
Now, the deputy and Kurt decided
somebody had to go get help.
So Kurt says, I'll stay.
Deputy, you have to walk back.
But it's a good
12, 14 miles back.
So he started back.
What they didn't know, there
was a geological survey team
in close area of
this crash site,
but they were still
a few miles off.
They saw the crash, so
they were coming to it.
And they had two vehicles.
So Kurt stayed.
And he heard the
vehicles coming.
He knew what happened to
the both of their vehicles,
the deputy's and his vehicle.
And they figured
it had something
to do with this saucer.
So he ran down the field
because there was no road there
and stopped this vehicle--
these two vehicles.
And he didn't know that they
were this geological team
and said, stop, stop, stop.
And he said, there
was a crash site here.
We don't know what type
of vehicle that was.
Our vehicles didn't
operate, so we don't want
you to get too close to it.
And so these scientists,
some of them were geologists,
they got out and they
said, well, let's go over.
We'll keep our vehicles here.
So this one geologist goes
over and looks and says,
that is a craft
from outer space.
And these are space people.
So they said, well, we'll
go back and get our vehicle
and drive back to Kingman
and notify authorities.
And Kurt says, you need to
notify the Army at Fort Irwin.
And you need a notify
the Marines at Barstow
and have them come out
here because there's
a flying saucer that crashed.
So they left.
Well, now, seven
hours later, which
was way in the afternoon--
this thing crashed
in the early mornings--
finally, the deputy comes back.
And he comes back with
some other deputies.
They parked away,
about a mile away.
And so seven hours
later, the Army
comes, the cavalry, so to speak.
And along with them came
an FBI agent, an FBI agent
by the name of Farley.
And the FBI agent
was from Las Vegas.
And not sure exactly who
notified the FBI agent,
but he was there.
And so they all walked around.
They put a perimeter around.
And two of the Army
personnel from Fort Irwin--
and there was, I think, 10
or 12 of them that arrived--
went inside the craft.
And they found four
other entities.
And they were alive.
So they were five total.
But they were laying down,
cuddling as if they were scared
or protecting themselves.
So the Army people tried to get
them out, come on out, come on
out, get out, yelling
for them to get out.
Eventually, they all came out.
And they all sat
on the ground next
to the craft and
the other entity
that had already been outside.
>>EMERY: How large was this
craft, for the audience?
>>DOTY: The craft
was about, I think,
45 to 50 feet in diameter.
It was saucer-shaped.
It was bulged.
>>EMERY: So a soldier could
walk in there obviously?
>>DOTY: Yeah, the
soldier could walk in.
Hunching down, he was
able to get in there.
These things looked--
they had a head
of almost like a human with no
ears, a small nose, a mouth,
huge eyes.
Their hands were just like
ours, four fingers and a thumb.
They had strange-looking feet.
They're more clubfoot.
They had a suit on,
one piece, jumpsuit.
>>EMERY: Any hair?
>>DOTY: And they had no
hair, no hair whatsoever.
They were grayish colored.
The geologist, when
they came back,
he said that they
had some equipment
that they could check to make
sure there wasn't any radiation
because this geologist was
convinced that there would
be a radiation and everybody
would be in danger of radiation.
They didn't want
anybody in that craft
except for the
military personnel.
They camped out all night.
The next morning,
early in the morning,
a military Air Force team
came from Indian Springs.
And this was the newly
formed SDART team,
which was out of the Air
Technical Intelligence Center
at Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base.
They were controlled there.
They came out.
And they had Air
Force technicians
and knew exactly what to do.
>>EMERY: 1953.
So this is one of the first DART
missions that were out there?
That must have been
the biggest one.
>>DOTY: Exactly.
They were formed after the
'47 to '49 crash, the Roswell
and the Pelona Peak crash.
The Air Force
realized at that time
that they had to have
a team, a special team,
to be able to recover and
operate around and collect
evidence at these scenes.
And so that's why they
formed the SDART team.
And these technicians knew--
actually, two technicians
went in the craft
and were able to
disconnect something.
The report doesn't
go into details
on that, which
allowed other vehicles
and radios to operate normally.
So they were able
to maybe disconnect
electronics or whatever inside.
So these two
technicians knew that.
So my question was always,
well, how did they know that?
But DART's never answered
it in the report.
Now, the technician
went into the craft
and did detect radiation.
Inside the craft, there were
these five containers with fluid
in them, just similar to
another story we talked about.
And there were other bundles
of what they thought was dirt.
But that was radioactive.
So they figured it
was maybe uranium.
So at that point, the military
commander at the scene
immediately detected something
that was out of their realm.
So they notified the Atomic
Energy Commission, which
was in effect in those days.
And they were located in Nevada
at the Nevada Test Range.
And so they came down.
And that's why the Atomic
Energy Commission was there.
Now, there's also
this Fritz guy that's
actually been on the internet.
His name was on the
internet as being there.
Well, Fritz didn't work for a
private company like somebody
claimed.
Fritz worked for Sandia
Laboratories back in those days.
And he was an expert in
reconstructing things.
And what he did was he actually
used mathematical principles
to determine the force
used for that thing
to crash and indent
itself into 5 feet of dirt
or whatever it was.
And that's what Fritz Warner's
job was out there at the site.
And he was out there during
the entire time period
because Sandia National
Laboratories actually came out.
Now, here's the
problem they had, was
what are they going
to do with these--
>>EMERY: Who gets them?
>>DOTY: --five alien
extraterrestrials.
They didn't have a containment
facility in 1953 at Groom Lake.
In fact, Area 51 wasn't even--
I mean, it was just being
formed back in those days.
The only bases up there
was Indian Springs,
which was an Air Force base
and Nellis Air Force base.
But they did have--
US government did have a
facility at Los Alamos National
Laboratories because
that's where IBA lived.
So the consensus
over a number of days
was to get these things, these
extraterrestrials someplace.
So Los Alamos brought down some
form of containment vehicle.
And it doesn't say what
it was in the report.
They put these things
in this containment.
And they bust them-- or they
truck them back to Los Alamos
National Laboratories.
Obviously, they had some kind
of facility to keep them there.
In the meantime, they had
to recover the crash craft
and get that someplace.
And again, we didn't
have Groom Lake,
so where they going to take it?
We didn't have Tonopah Test
Range or Air Force Base.
We had Indian Springs.
>>EMERY: Nellis.
>>DOTY: We had Nellis.
But they had facilities
at Fort Irwin,
the Army base in California.
The Einstein commander was,
in fact, an army colonel.
He said, well,
we're going to have
to put this on some kind
of a flatbed or something.
So over a period
of days, they were
able to get it on a flatbed
using a crane, I guess, or--
anyway, they transported
it to Fort Irwin.
And it was at Fort Irwin from
1953, a lot of part of 1953
until 1968.
So all those years that Kingman
crash craft was at Fort Irwin.
And it wasn't at
these facilities
that people are talking
about on the internet.
There's actually a picture of
this craft in an ammunition
revetment, big, huge bunker.
And it showed it inside.
They had to take the doors off.
It looked to me like
based on the picture
and knowing what a
revetment or a bunker
looks like, they had
to take the doors off.
And they had to modify it to
get this thing inside of it.
>>EMERY: It's enormous.
>>DOTY: It's enormous.
And they did.
They actually got it in there.
And then they somehow
covered it up.
There's no picture of that.
And how they got it from
Fort Irwin to Groom Lake
is another story.
>>EMERY: That's quite the haul.
>>DOTY: But if you know
where Fort Irwin is,
that's not too far from Nevada.
So they were able to convoy it
with a cover over it in 1960
all the way to Tonopah,
at least the gold water
side of the Nellis Test and
Training Range, into there.
And then from there,
obviously they got it.
So now the story goes--
now, the report is pretty much--
it talks about a lot of
other things pertaining
to the recovery
process, the SDART team.
They brought in different army
units and different Air Force
units to analyze.
And one of the things
they tried to do,
which was out of the
ordinary-- and this is 1953--
they actually brought
some pilots in--
and I'm not sure where
the pilots came from,
they didn't say--
to try to fly this
thing out of there.
And obviously, it didn't work
because there was no way.
They said, go in there
and try to fly this.
And the pilots say, well,
how does this thing work?
And how do you fly it?
I mean, this is '53.
And then they also thought about
letting the ET, one of the ETs
fly it.
But we couldn't
communicate with them.
They still couldn't
Now, there were a lot of stories
about how they communicated
with them years later.
So now they have five
that they eventually
must have taken to Groom Lake.
>>EMERY: Are these
organic beings,
or are they
programmed life forms?
What are they?
>>DOTY: No, they're biologics.
>>EMERY: Biologics.
>>DOTY: They're biological
as far as I know.
The report doesn't go
into any more details.
they call them
human-skinned in the report.
But this is '53 terminology,
so I don't think they realize--
>>EMERY: Any correlation
with J-Rod or anything?
>>DOTY: Well, we think
one of them is J-Rod.
We think the one that first got
out, he's actually the J-Rod.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
That makes sense.
>>DOTY: And so he's
been around since 1953.
And he's the one
that is assisting us
at Groom Lake with technologies.
Maybe that craft and maybe
some other of their crafts
have crashed.
So that's the story.
That's the official story.
And a lot of people
watching this
are going to say, well, I've
heard this guy talk about this.
Now, this is in a
classified report,
formally classified report.
There were a lot of
people that talked
about this many years ago.
Robert Dean tells this
entire story almost verbatim,
what I've talked about.
And he never had
access to that report.
He had another report.
Wendelle Stevens talks about it.
There's other people
that have talked
about this for many years.
So that's the story of
the 1953 Kingman crash.
>>EMERY: So is J-Rod
still alive today?
And what can you
tell us about it?
>>DOTY: Well, as you
know, I spoke of J-Rod
in an episode or two.
When I was a counterintelligence
officer out at Groom Lake,
I saw a vehicle
with J-Rod on it.
And I was educated
in what that meant.
And so there was somebody,
whether it was still
this particular
entity or a newer one.
J-Rod or an entity like J-Rod
was still helping us at least
1985 out at Groom
Lake at Area 51.
And if you understood or
believe in Captain Dan Burisch,
he talks about J-Rod still
being out there in the '90s.
If you talked about this one
other person, who I'm not
going to mention his name and
talked about UFO convention
in 2009, he talks about
J-Rod still being out there.
So whether it is the
same J-Rod, same entity,
or another one, and they
just referred to it as J-Rod.
That's what I know.
>>EMERY: Did we learn
anything more about J-Rod
and where his people
actually come from?
>>DOTY: I think the
story goes that he
came he comes from
a very nearby star
system, Alpha Centauri,
and the planet close
to that star system.
But that's just
something I heard.
I can't say that's
absolutely fact.
>>EMERY: Well,
there was a plethora
of organizations and
three-letter agencies
out there at this incident.
Which one stands out to you
that you'd like to talk about?
>>DOTY: I think the
Atomic Energy Commission
was a more important one.
When the Air Force technicians
detected radioactive material
in that dirt, was the
whole craft radioactive?
We knew a lot about
radiation back in those days
because we just tested a nuclear
weapon and used two in combat.
And we were building
more out in Los Alamos.
So the Atomic Energy
Commission got there
for a specific
purpose, is determining
whether everybody
that's out there
was in danger of
being irradiated
with whatever
radioactive material was
inside that spacecraft.
And they spent a lot
of time out there.
They brought other
resources out there.
According to the
reports, they actually
were able to take all
that material, the dirt
in those containers,
out of that spacecraft
and carted it away to wherever.
I'm not sure where.
>>EMERY: What were
their findings then?
>>DOTY: The question was,
what was their findings?
The findings was that
it was uranium ore.
Now, here's another
bigger question.
>>EMERY: Why do they have
uranium ore on that craft?
>>DOTY: Why did this
particular spacecraft,
coming from a different star
system, want uranium ore?
Why did they have so much of it?
I mean, there were--
I can't remember, but
it was quite a quantity,
like a quarter of a ton or
something to that effect.
What were they doing with that?
Well, I guess the
biggest question is maybe
they didn't know what
it was, number one.
they didn't have
uranium on their planet,
or they had uranium and they
didn't know how to use it,
or they didn't
have enough of it.
And so now this mission for
this particular spacecraft
was to go to our planet and find
uranium ore and bring it back.
Maybe that's why.
And maybe they were using it for
something entirely different.
We just can't imagine what
they might be using it for.
>>EMERY: Is it possible to
say maybe they were taking it
so we couldn't use it?
>>DOTY: In 1953, I
don't know, maybe,
because any extraterrestrial
race that was watching Earth
and had the technology to look
into Earth back in those days--
and of course, if they
have the technology
to fly millions or
billions of miles here,
they certainly
have the technology
or could have to watch us.
We just detonated
a nuclear weapon
in a desert of New Mexico.
And we used two nuclear weapons
to kill hundreds of thousands
of people.
They see this.
This is a hostile
race of people here.
And maybe they want to
gather all this uranium
and get it out of here so
we couldn't build any more.
I don't think that's--
looking back at it, I
don't that's feasible
because we're a big planet.
And I'm sure if they could
find that little bit--
I mean, that's a little
less than a ton--
they knew there was
more on this planet.
And they couldn't
possibly take it all.
>>EMERY: So they
never figured it out?
>>DOTY: Not that I know of.
Maybe we did.
One of the big--
another big question
is, was it used for
their propulsion?
Did they have a
nuclear propulsion
system, and that uranium
ore, all they had to do
is pour it in to their reactor
or their engine propulsion
system and it would create
uranium-238, or plutonium,
or whatever?
I don't know, maybe.
But I don't know that they
ever figured that out?
>>EMERY: What about
the debris material
that was scattered around?
Any technologies that were
reverse-engineered to come out
of that or?
>>DOTY: I'm sure there was.
But remember, this is
1953, and our technology
hadn't advanced very much.
We had a 1947 craft
and a 1949 craft.
So we had at least two crafts.
And there's rumors
that we probably
had a '51 craft that had
crashed someplace else.
But I don't know enough
about that to talk.
So we have at least three
and maybe even four crafts.
And now we're trying to
understand these crafts.
We're trying to
reverse-engineer these crafts.
study the propulsion
system, the communications
device, the electrical devices
in these things.
And this is '53
technology, so we probably
haven't advanced very
much to understand
how this thing operated.
>>EMERY: What do you find
significant from the Kingman
crash compared to all the
crashes around that time?
>>DOTY: One of the things
that's very interesting
is that all the
occupants survived.
>>EMERY: Five occupants.
>>DOTY: The five
of them survived.
You look at the Eban
crash in 1947 at Corona,
only one survived,
the others died.
The crash at 1949, Pelona
Peak, all of them died.
They never even got
out of the craft.
We don't know about the '51,
whether it was real or not.
So we knew this one,
five of them survived.
So obviously, that's
positive for us.
And what did we learn
from these five?
How did we communicate
or eventually
communicate with these five?
Obviously, if one
of them was J-Rod,
we were able to
communicate with it.
And we were able to maybe
teach it English or whatever.
If they could speak
some form of a language
where their vocal
cords are able,
then we could teach them
English or some other language.
>>EMERY: Did you ever
find anything out
about where the
other may have went,
or what happened
to them, all five?
>>DOTY: There's
nothing ever mentioned
in the classified report.
>>EMERY: Even after years
when you were in there,
you didn't see any
briefings or any files
about anything about it?
>>DOTY: I knew that there were
other visitors, so to speak.
One of the unique things
I've never talked about
was there was two designations
of species thrown around
at Area 51.
One was visitors and
one was creatures.
Now, to distinguish the two--
I wasn't briefed
into it, so I don't
know how they distinguished.
But just common sense
tells me the visitors
were there on their own
accord, maybe voluntarily.
Maybe we had an
exchange program.
If you want to think about Serpo
or some other kind of exchange
program that Linda Moulton Howe
talks about that's out there.
And then the creatures are what?
The creatures are the
ones that we captured,
that were in crash crafts,
that were hostile towards us.
Well, we don't know.
But to distinguish between
a visitor and a creature,
that's a big leap right there.
I'd say the visitors were
probably all benevolent
and the creatures
were probably not.
>>EMERY: Do you believe
that the occupants
of this craft, the five of
them, let's say one is J-Rod,
do you think we would
give them the opportunity
of the other four to go home?
>>DOTY: Understanding
the command structure
of whoever is in charge of
MJ-12 back then, I don't know.
>>EMERY: Like,
here's your craft--
>>DOTY: We certainly
don't want to lose
an extraterrestrial craft
with the technologies
that we can learn
from that craft.
So we don't want that craft
to be taken away from us.
And then perhaps, maybe--
I don't know.
Maybe the craft was
damaged in some way
and they don't have the
equipment or the materials
to repair it here.
I mean, that's always
that possibility, too.
>>EMERY: How did this event
affect the community of Kingman
in the following years?
>>DOTY: Well, it was classified
for a number of years.
1964, a newspaper reporter
heard a rumor about the case.
And he heard it from a Mojave
Sheriff's County dispatcher.
She tells a story to him
at a barbecue or a cookout
with his wife and her husband.
And she tells this story to him.
And he said, when
did this happen?
And she tells him.
She said, I was dispatching
that day in May of 1953.
It was a flying saucer that
crashed because that's what they
were saying over the radio.
And this reporter said,
well, where did it crash at?
I don't know.
But it's out past the
old Army Airfield.
>>EMERY: You think that's what
launched these investigations?
>>DOTY: I think that opened up
a lot because a reporter talked
and spread rumors
and other people
heard him, in 1972,
the newspaper article,
and then other people
got a hold of it.
And they started
exaggerating these things,
what actually happened.
And then they talked
about three other--
or two other crashes that
occurred in that same year.
And so people just heard
one rumor, created this--
>>EMERY: Added more spacecraft.
>>DOTY: Added more stories.
>>EMERY: A couple balloons.
>>DOTY: Yeah, the balloon.
That was the most
fascinating story.
This woman reports that the
extraterrestrials got out
of the spacecraft and hooked
up this balloon to them
and they flew away in a balloon.
And she says it was just like
Dorothy in The Wizard of Oz.
>>EMERY: Are there
any new conclusions
that have been drawn
today after everything?
>>DOTY: I think we realized
that these things aren't
safe in our atmosphere,
at least in 1953,
and that these weather anomalies
or atmospheric anomalies
can affect the operation
or the avionics
of these extraterrestrial crafts
and cause them to crash, like,
for example, this one.
>>EMERY: Rick, I'm glad you
brought this report to us
and gave us this great
description of what happens.
Thanks for being on the show.
>>DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]